docs/source/index.rst, before:

.. neo4j-genai-python documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Apr  9 16:36:43 2024.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Neo4j GenAI package for Python
==============================

This repository contains the official Neo4j GenAI features for Python.

The purpose of this package is to provide a first party package to developers,
where Neo4j can guarantee long term commitment and maintenance as well as being
fast to ship new features and high performing patterns and methods.

******
Topics
******

+ :ref:`rag-documentation`
+ :ref:`api-documentation`
+ :ref:`types-documentation`

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3
    :caption: Contents:
    :hidden:

    rag.rst
    api.rst
    types.rst


Usage
=====

************
Installation
************

This package requires Python (>=3.8.1).

To install the latest stable version, use:

.. code:: bash

    pip install neo4j-genai


.. note::

   It is always recommended to install python packages for user space in a virtual environment.

********
Examples
********

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Creating a vector index
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When creating a vector index, make sure you match the number of dimensions in the index with the number of dimensions the embeddings have.

See :ref:`the API documentation<create-vector-index>` for more details.

.. code:: python

    from neo4j import GraphDatabase
    from neo4j_genai.indexes import create_vector_index

    URI = "neo4j://localhost:7687"
    AUTH = ("neo4j", "password")

    INDEX_NAME = "vector-index-name"

    # Connect to Neo4j database
    driver = GraphDatabase.driver(URI, auth=AUTH)

    # Creating the index
    create_vector_index(
        driver,
        INDEX_NAME,
        label="Document",
        embedding_property="vectorProperty",
        dimensions=1536,
        similarity_fn="euclidean",
    )

.. note::

    Assumed Neo4j is running

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Populating the Neo4j Vector Index
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This library does not provide functionality to write data to the database.
See below for writing data using `the Neo4j Python driver <https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j-python-driver>`_.


.. code:: python

    from neo4j import GraphDatabase
    from random import random

    URI = "neo4j://localhost:7687"
    AUTH = ("neo4j", "password")

    # Connect to Neo4j database
    driver = GraphDatabase.driver(URI, auth=AUTH)

    # Upsert the vector
    vector = [random() for _ in range(DIMENSION)]
    insert_query = """
        MERGE (n:Document {id: $id})
        WITH n
        CALL db.create.setNodeVectorProperty(n, 'vectorProperty', $vector)
        RETURN n
    """
    parameters = {
        "id": 0,
        "vector": vector,
    }
    driver.execute_query(insert_query, parameters)


.. note::

    Assumed Neo4j is running with a defined vector index

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Performing a similarity search
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

While the library has more retrievers than shown here, the following examples should be able to get you started.

.. code:: python

    from neo4j import GraphDatabase
    from neo4j_genai.retrievers import VectorRetriever
    from langchain_openai import OpenAIEmbeddings

    URI = "neo4j://localhost:7687"
    AUTH = ("neo4j", "password")

    INDEX_NAME = "vector-index-name"

    # Connect to Neo4j database
    driver = GraphDatabase.driver(URI, auth=AUTH)

    # Create Embedder object
    # Note: An OPENAI_API_KEY environment variable is required here
    embedder = OpenAIEmbeddings(model="text-embedding-3-large")

    # Initialize the retriever
    retriever = VectorRetriever(driver, INDEX_NAME, embedder)

    # Run the similarity search
    query_text = "How do I do similarity search in Neo4j?"
    response = retriever.search(query_text=query_text, top_k=5)

.. note::

    Assumed Neo4j is running with populated vector index in place.

***********
Limitations
***********

The query over the vector index is an *approximate* nearest neighbor search and may not give exact results. `See this reference for more details <https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes/#_limitiations_and_known_issues>`_.


Development
===========

********************
Install dependencies
********************

.. code:: bash

    poetry install

***************
Getting started
***************

~~~~~~
Issues
~~~~~~

If you have a bug to report or feature to request, first
`search to see if an issue already exists <https://docs.github.com/en/github/searching-for-information-on-github/searching-on-github/searching-issues-and-pull-requests#search-by-the-title-body-or-comments>`_.
If a related issue doesn't exist, please raise a new issue using the relevant
`issue form <https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j-genai-python/issues/new/choose>`_.

If you're a Neo4j Enterprise customer, you can also reach out to `Customer Support <http://support.neo4j.com/>`_.

If you don't have a bug to report or feature request, but you need a hand with
the library; community support is available via `Neo4j Online Community <https://community.neo4j.com/>`_
and/or `Discord <https://discord.gg/neo4j>`_.

~~~~~~~~~~~~
Make changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Fork the repository.
2. Install Python and Poetry.
3. Create a working branch from `main` and start with your changes!

~~~~~~~~~~~~
Pull request
~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you're finished with your changes, create a pull request, also known as a PR.

-   Ensure that you have `signed the CLA <https://neo4j.com/developer/contributing-code/#sign-cla>`_.
-   Ensure that the base of your PR is set to `main`.
-   Don't forget to `link your PR to an issue <https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue>`_
    if you are solving one.
-   Enable the checkbox to `allow maintainer edits <https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/allowing-changes-to-a-pull-request-branch-created-from-a-fork>`_
    so that maintainers can make any necessary tweaks and update your branch for merge.
-   Reviewers may ask for changes to be made before a PR can be merged, either using
    `suggested changes <https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/incorporating-feedback-in-your-pull-request>`_
    or normal pull request comments. You can apply suggested changes directly through
    the UI, and any other changes can be made in your fork and committed to the PR branch.
-   As you update your PR and apply changes, mark each conversation as `resolved <https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/commenting-on-a-pull-request#resolving-conversations>`_.

*********
Run tests
*********

Open a new virtual environment and then run the tests.

.. code:: bash

    poetry shell
    pytest

~~~~~~~~~~
Unit tests
~~~~~~~~~~

This should run out of the box once the dependencies are installed.

.. code:: bash

    poetry run pytest tests/unit

~~~~~~~~~
E2E tests
~~~~~~~~~

To run e2e tests you'd need to have some services running locally:

-   neo4j
-   weaviate
-   weaviate-text2vec-transformers

The easiest way to get it up and running is via Docker compose:

.. code:: bash

    docker compose -f tests/e2e/docker-compose.yml up


.. note::

    If you suspect something in the databases are cached, run `docker compose -f tests/e2e/docker-compose.yml down` to remove them completely

Once the services are running, execute the following command to run the e2e tests.

.. code:: bash

    poetry run pytest tests/e2e

*******************
Further information
*******************

-   `The official Neo4j Python driver <https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j-python-driver>`_
-   `Neo4j GenAI integrations <https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/genai-integrations/>`_

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Add upsert_data example to docs/

docs/source/index.rst, after:

.. neo4j-genai-python documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Apr  9 16:36:43 2024.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Neo4j GenAI package for Python
==============================

This repository contains the official Neo4j GenAI features for Python.

The purpose of this package is to provide a first party package to developers,
where Neo4j can guarantee long term commitment and maintenance as well as being
fast to ship new features and high performing patterns and methods.

******
Topics
******

+ :ref:`rag-documentation`
+ :ref:`api-documentation`
+ :ref:`types-documentation`

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3
    :caption: Contents:
    :hidden:

    rag.rst
    api.rst
    types.rst


Usage
=====

************
Installation
************

This package requires Python (>=3.8.1).

To install the latest stable version, use:

.. code:: bash

    pip install neo4j-genai


.. note::

   It is always recommended to install python packages for user space in a virtual environment.

********
Examples
********

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Creating a vector index
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When creating a vector index, make sure you match the number of dimensions in the index with the number of dimensions the embeddings have.

See :ref:`the API documentation<create-vector-index>` for more details.

.. code:: python

    from neo4j import GraphDatabase
    from neo4j_genai.indexes import create_vector_index

    URI = "neo4j://localhost:7687"
    AUTH = ("neo4j", "password")

    INDEX_NAME = "vector-index-name"

    # Connect to Neo4j database
    driver = GraphDatabase.driver(URI, auth=AUTH)

    # Creating the index
    create_vector_index(
        driver,
        INDEX_NAME,
        label="Document",
        embedding_property="vectorProperty",
        dimensions=1536,
        similarity_fn="euclidean",
    )

.. note::

    Assumed Neo4j is running

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Populating the Neo4j Vector Index
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Note that the below example is not the only way you can upsert data into your Neo4j database. For example, you could also leverage `the Neo4j Python driver <https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j-python-driver>`_.


.. code:: python

    from neo4j import GraphDatabase
    from neo4j_genai.indexes import upsert_query

    URI = "neo4j://localhost:7687"
    AUTH = ("neo4j", "password")

    # Connect to Neo4j database
    driver = GraphDatabase.driver(URI, auth=AUTH)

    # Upsert the vector
    vector = ...
    upsert_query(
        driver,
        node_id=1,
        embedding_property="vectorProperty",
        vector=vector,
    )


.. note::

    Assumed Neo4j is running with a defined vector index

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Performing a similarity search
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

While the library has more retrievers than shown here, the following examples should be able to get you started.

.. code:: python

    from neo4j import GraphDatabase
    from neo4j_genai.retrievers import VectorRetriever
    from langchain_openai import OpenAIEmbeddings

    URI = "neo4j://localhost:7687"
    AUTH = ("neo4j", "password")

    INDEX_NAME = "vector-index-name"

    # Connect to Neo4j database
    driver = GraphDatabase.driver(URI, auth=AUTH)

    # Create Embedder object
    # Note: An OPENAI_API_KEY environment variable is required here
    embedder = OpenAIEmbeddings(model="text-embedding-3-large")

    # Initialize the retriever
    retriever = VectorRetriever(driver, INDEX_NAME, embedder)

    # Run the similarity search
    query_text = "How do I do similarity search in Neo4j?"
    response = retriever.search(query_text=query_text, top_k=5)

.. note::

    Assumed Neo4j is running with populated vector index in place.

***********
Limitations
***********

The query over the vector index is an *approximate* nearest neighbor search and may not give exact results. `See this reference for more details <https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes/#_limitiations_and_known_issues>`_.


Development
===========

********************
Install dependencies
********************

.. code:: bash

    poetry install

***************
Getting started
***************

~~~~~~
Issues
~~~~~~

If you have a bug to report or feature to request, first
`search to see if an issue already exists <https://docs.github.com/en/github/searching-for-information-on-github/searching-on-github/searching-issues-and-pull-requests#search-by-the-title-body-or-comments>`_.
If a related issue doesn't exist, please raise a new issue using the relevant
`issue form <https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j-genai-python/issues/new/choose>`_.

If you're a Neo4j Enterprise customer, you can also reach out to `Customer Support <http://support.neo4j.com/>`_.

If you don't have a bug to report or feature request, but you need a hand with
the library; community support is available via `Neo4j Online Community <https://community.neo4j.com/>`_
and/or `Discord <https://discord.gg/neo4j>`_.

~~~~~~~~~~~~
Make changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Fork the repository.
2. Install Python and Poetry.
3. Create a working branch from `main` and start with your changes!

~~~~~~~~~~~~
Pull request
~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you're finished with your changes, create a pull request, also known as a PR.

-   Ensure that you have `signed the CLA <https://neo4j.com/developer/contributing-code/#sign-cla>`_.
-   Ensure that the base of your PR is set to `main`.
-   Don't forget to `link your PR to an issue <https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue>`_
    if you are solving one.
-   Enable the checkbox to `allow maintainer edits <https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/allowing-changes-to-a-pull-request-branch-created-from-a-fork>`_
    so that maintainers can make any necessary tweaks and update your branch for merge.
-   Reviewers may ask for changes to be made before a PR can be merged, either using
    `suggested changes <https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/incorporating-feedback-in-your-pull-request>`_
    or normal pull request comments. You can apply suggested changes directly through
    the UI, and any other changes can be made in your fork and committed to the PR branch.
-   As you update your PR and apply changes, mark each conversation as `resolved <https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/commenting-on-a-pull-request#resolving-conversations>`_.

*********
Run tests
*********

Open a new virtual environment and then run the tests.

.. code:: bash

    poetry shell
    pytest

~~~~~~~~~~
Unit tests
~~~~~~~~~~

This should run out of the box once the dependencies are installed.

.. code:: bash

    poetry run pytest tests/unit

~~~~~~~~~
E2E tests
~~~~~~~~~

To run e2e tests you'd need to have some services running locally:

-   neo4j
-   weaviate
-   weaviate-text2vec-transformers

The easiest way to get it up and running is via Docker compose:

.. code:: bash

    docker compose -f tests/e2e/docker-compose.yml up


.. note::

    If you suspect something in the databases are cached, run `docker compose -f tests/e2e/docker-compose.yml down` to remove them completely

Once the services are running, execute the following command to run the e2e tests.

.. code:: bash

    poetry run pytest tests/e2e

*******************
Further information
*******************

-   `The official Neo4j Python driver <https://github.com/neo4j/neo4j-python-driver>`_
-   `Neo4j GenAI integrations <https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/genai-integrations/>`_

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
